credit card debt is at the highest level
we have ever seen But now delinquencies
of credit card debt are at the highest
on record you came here for the truth so
let me unveil that for you you don't
okay let's get serious here for a minute
I want to talk to you about what's going
on with credit card debt it's going
crazy right now and this is coming out
after years and years and years of
craziness okay just take a look you
could see this credit card debt versus
the total savings rate that's not a good
sign people are not saving the money
that they did before they are spending
this money now you might say hey savings
rate I don't keep money in the savings
account or whatever that's not the way
this works it's a different calculation
basically what money is left over what
money is left over that's how you can
look at this figure and it is terrible
doesn't matter if it's 3% or 4% or 2%
whatever people don't save they have
nothing left at the end of the day and
at the same time they are spending on
credit cards I hear this from people
all the time whether it's U you know
personal individuals that I have seen
talk to I ask the right questions okay
or it's people that can um that I hear
from that they believe you know inside
Finance Friday shout out to Corey who's
telling me hey I see this and I believe
that it's going on around me in the
United States and oh I think it's
happening over here I'm hearing it from
everybody from everybody okay so it is a
matter of fact that that people are
starting to realize that everybody's
kind of just trying to keep up with the
Kardashians out there and maybe those
people really aren't doing well and now
they're starting to see that where those
people are you know probably
overspending but when you know when
things are great and things are
fantastic and costs are cheap well it's
okay you can you can kind of get away
with it but as things get tighter and
more expensive well not So Much Anymore
of course when you have credit card debt
at 20% interest or higher it is
backbreaking and that's what's going on
right now certainly people are dealing
with this this is not the only one you
got the buy now pay laters you got all
these things and of course credit card
delinquency rates were the worst on
record I didn't say that they're bad I
didn't say that it's you know you know
it's so it's okay we've been here before
no no I said it's the worst on
record crazy right because I thought it
was already bad as it is but apparently
we got worse almost 3.5% of card
balances were at least 30 days past due
at the end of December okay that's the
highest figure since going back to 2012
up above 30 basis points from the
previous quarter the share of debts that
are 60 and 90 days late also climbed so
people can't afford it stress among card
holders was further underscored in the
payment Behavior as the share of
accounts making the minimum payments
Rose 34 basis points to a serious High
people are basically
pushed to the edge right now they don't
want to give up their habits and yet
they have no cash they've got no money
because their rent is too high because
their energy is too high their
electricity prices are ridiculous right
now every stamps are going up stamps are
going up I mean what what's left what is
left come on right um here we go
Consumer Financial stress you can see it
for yourself accounts making the minimum
payments yeah they got to make those
minimums they got they got to be making
those minimums uh but they're not paying
the full thing off I could tell you that
that's a definite thing you can see the
revolving balances have been increasing
no question about it as soon as um you
know we started seeing that shift with
interest rates this made a big change
for a lot of people but it's it's like a
strangling it's a constriction that's
been going on there's no question about
that and look this I think it's fun well
the the foundation you might be able to
see on your screen that's involved in
this that's a whole different story but
it says continuing to explore the Exodus
from higher education are people Fed Up
are
people um seeing the the light are they
saying this education system is just not
it's just not built for me I just don't
like it I'm I'm you know disenfranchised
you know N I don't want that or is it a
matter of money is it a matter of people
saying I can't afford that I'm going to
go in debt for the next you know 10
years potentially in fact senior
citizens the amount of senior citizens
in student debt I think is you know
somewhat near a record to that degree we
are seeing people who you know they may
not necessarily have gone in debt 40
years ago it might be more recent but
they can't pay that off either so it
doesn't matter what age people are the
cost is too high at the same time
they're saying what am I getting out of
it that's a problem because the cost
will continue to go it's a business
right these these colleges universities
these are the first and foremost they're
a
business business remember that they're
there to make money off of the
ridiculous the textbooks that cost like
whatever it is a $200 $100 for a a silly
little textbook uh and then they change
the version
by changing two words in the entire
textbook oh you need you need the 10th
version not the N you have the ninth
version no don't come to my classroom I
me it's ridiculous Financial conditions
buttthe heads with borrowing conditions
remember there's two different things
here Financial conditions have eased
quite a bit from where they were yet
borrowing conditions are are not good
because obviously with rates being so
high people are borrowing if you're
going to take a credit card debt you're
doing that
20% however
Financial conditions are in a different
state if you want to know more about
that link in the description under the
sources you can you can read about this
but I just want to make that clear okay
because the financial conditions and
investors and so on they're dealing with
different stuff than you the individual
born on that credit card corporate debt
defaults sared 80% in 2023 it could be
high again this year so the corporations
are dealing with this problem too and
what happens you might say ah who cares
who cares about the corporates of course
who cares about the Corpus but what's
important here to understand is that if
they are in trouble they're going to
fire people so keep that in mind layoffs
could increase I started seeing the
rumors at the time of this recording
anyway Tesla might be laying people off
like literally tens of thousands of
people a lot of companies are looking at
doing that and have already started and
been doing that all through 2023 now
into
2024 where this year's tax refunds going
right into a debt hole with credit card
debt at record levels refunds are
helping people make ends meat so you can
see they're paying that off but it's
just going on to pay the debt just like
in the United
States what what do we see in the United
States we are seeing the country itself
it there's there's talk depending on
what happens with interest rates and and
so on by the end of 2024 for having to
pay
$1.6
trillion in just interest payments 1.6
trillion and that is you know the worst
case scenario in the best case scenario
it's like 1.3 trillion 1.2
trillion whatever give or take a few
hundred billion okay there's there is no
way they're going to pay this back it's
not going to get paid back it doesn't
matter if they start lowering interest
rates it's already a foregone conclusion
it's over it's done so you got to
realize this think about this this is
what they don't tell you if they got to
pay that interest before I get paid with
my infrastructure and with all that what
does that mean for me it means my
services are about to be cut it means
they're going to start slashing things
they're going to be cutting Corners you
think your roads are bad now just wait
just wait until you see what's
coming just wait
the last time housing was at close to
this level of affordability was 1990
anyone know what happened to Canadian
real estate in the 1990s uhoh so they're
suggesting we're going to see a
deflation a big crash that's not
necessarily the case prices can go
sideways for a long period of time
investors don't really go anywhere
people don't really do much they kind of
just sit on it they just wait what I'm
noticing is a lot of people they're
underwater okay this is important to
note a lot of these investors they're
just paying in like yeah eventually
things are going to get better and they
just paying paying paying they might
just give up I've seen you know a couple
examples of that so just be mindful of
that this is for Canada it's going on
everywhere affordability is down okay
borrowing conditions are not good today
and you got to you know start adding all
these things up skyrocketing US debt
could trigger Market
shock I'm seeing it everywhere
all of these things are adding up why is
it a problem when there's too much debt
number one the interest payments those
get paid off before anything else the
debt gets paid off at the same time if
the government is issuing too much debt
there's just too much debt that we're
spending how do why like why is that
happen because these governments want to
spend so much money in order to do that
they have to fund it in order to fund
that they have to basically take their
debt they got to package that up and
they got to sell that to an investor but
then what happens here is they go crazy
oh we're going to spend let's just make
up a number10 trillion dollar this year
Well 10 trillion what what you minute do
we don't have enough investors so they
either have to give a very very
attractive rate so that they can have
enough investors to buy it up or there's
a big
or the Central Bank of your country
country has to then buy that up
monetizing the debt in doing so they
directly devalue your currency and it
spirals out of control it doesn't matter
if it's the US dollar or any others what
we could see here is way too much
spending leading to you know this
uncontrollable scenario hopefully it
doesn't go that way and it just slowly
but surely erodes away but be mindful of
this watch out with this I talk about
Solutions in my playlists on YouTube but
if you're interested in getting to the
real depth of it I talk about that on
the finance Friday I talk about that on
the business Sunday live sessions and
only those you know people who are
willing to sit with me for two hours at
each of these sessions are really going
to understand this in depth I hope that
you'll be one of those if you found this
video informative hit that Thumbs Up
Button the link for that is at the top
of that description right down there
don't just go anywhere hit that Thumbs
Up Button what are you going where are
you going you going to go see Janet
no Janet's mine you don't touch her